[MASWE-0067] New MASWE Debuggable Flag Not Disabled and MASTG-DEMO-0040 (by @appknox) (#3244)
OWASP/owasp-mastg: weaknesses/MASVS-PLATFORM/MASWE-0067.md

profiles: [R]
mappings:
  masvs-v1: [MSTG-RESILIENCE-2]
  masvs-v2: [MASVS-RESILIENCE-4]

>   cwe: []

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>   description: not setting android:debuggable="false" on Android or get-task-allow="true"

Reviewer: please remove this "draft" metadata

    in the entitlements file on iOS
  topics: null
status: new

---

## Overview

> The `android:debuggable` flag in the `AndroidManifest.xml` file of an Android app, along with the `get-task-allow` attribute in the iOS app's `entitlements.plist`, indicates whether the application can be debugged. If these flags remain enabled in the app's production build, it opens the door for attackers to attach debuggers, examine the app's memory, alter code during execution, and effectively reverse engineer the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mobile apps typically include a configuration flag that determines whether the app is debuggable. While this flag is essential during development, leaving it enabled in production can introduce serious security risks. A debuggable app allows attackers to attach debuggers, inspect memory, manipulate execution flow, and bypass client-side controls, even on non-rooted or non-jailbroken devices. It may also expose sensitive information through verbose logging or developer tools that would otherwise be inaccessible.
```

## Impact

> - **Runtime Manipulation**: When an attacker connects a debugger to the application, they can manipulate variables and alter the app's behavior in real time. This also provides them with the means to extract sensitive information, such as encryption keys, API keys, user credentials, and tokens stored in the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Read and Modify Memory**: Attackers can read and modify the app's memory space, which can lead to the exposure of sensitive information, such as encryption keys, API keys, user credentials, or tokens that otherwise would be inaccessible since they aren't present in the app's code or stored to disk.
- **Bypassing Security Controls**: Attackers can bypass security controls, such as authentication and authorization mechanisms, by manipulating the app's execution flow.
- **Execute Unauthorized Code**: Attackers can inject and execute arbitrary code within the app's context, leading to further exploitation of the device or the app's data. For example, attackers can inject reverse engineering tools like Frida into the app even on non-rooted or non-jailbroken devices.
- **Access to Sensitive Logs**: Attackers can access logs that may contain sensitive information, such as user credentials, API keys, or other sensitive data that would otherwise be inaccessible. This can lead to further exploitation of the app or the device.
```

## Mode of Introduction

> - **Misconfigured Build Settings**: Misconfigured build settings can accidentally leave an application in a state that is debuggable, exposing it to security vulnerabilities. This can result from improper selection of build variants, errors in CI/CD configurations, or mistakenly applying debug settings to production environments.
> - **Insufficient Security Measures**: The lack of security checks within the development and deployment pipeline considerably raises the risk of misconfigurations, such as unintentionally releasing debuggable builds into the production environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Misconfigured Build Settings**: Misconfigured build settings can accidentally leave an app in a state that is debuggable, exposing it to security vulnerabilities. This can result from improper selection of build variants, errors in CI/CD configurations, or mistakenly applying debug settings to production environments.
```

## Mitigations

> - Ensure the `android:debuggable` flag in the `AndroidManifest.xml` and `get-task-allow` attribute in `entitlements.plist` is set to `false` in all release builds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Ensure that the debuggable flag in the app's configuration file is not enabled for production builds. For example, by using build variants or flavours to separate debug and release configurations, ensure that the debuggable flag is enabled only for debug builds.
```
